---
description: Economic and X-Node interactions with the official node rewards dApp.
---

# Node Rewards Programme

{% hint style="info" %}
The original node rewards dApp is available at [app.rewards.vechain.org](https://app.rewards.vechain.org)
Note: Rewards Programme enters sunset mode on 24th June 2025, replaced as per [Vechain Renaissance 2025](https://vechainofficial.medium.com/the-vechain-renaissance-2025-roadmap-evolving-greatness-d8eaf3cd5fea) 
As of 1st July 2025, rewards benefits will cease to be applied.
As of 1st October 2025, rewards dApp will be withdrawn, along with Rewards API, Rewards Explorer, Rewards ThorPubAPI, and associated services.
{% endhint %}

In blockchain ecosystems the word node is a reserved word which is used to refer to a computer system which stores a copy of the blockchain transactions. In the VeChain ecosystem the word node can also be used to refer to a holder of a special  non-fungible token (NFT) which is used to stake. They collectively can be called StarGate NFTs and were formerly called Economic and X-Nodes. Additional privileges are attributed to Economic and X-Node holders. StarGate NFTs can be staked to get VTHO rewards. Additionally, voting rights on VeChain governance proposals.

  More about staking can be found in the [StarGate docs](https://docs.stargate.vechain.org).


{% hint style="info" %}
[vevote.vechain.org](https://vevote.vechain.org) VeChain governance proposal website.
{% endhint %}

StarGate Nodes have distinctive tiers which are determined by the following criteria:

* **Balance Requirement:** The quantity of VET to be held in your wallet for the acquisition, generation, and sustenance of your node.
* **Reward Multiplier:** The multiplier applied to the amount of VTHO generated by delegating your node.
* **Voting power:** Indicates the weight of your vote within VeChain's voting ecosystem, determined by the type of node you own.
* **Maturity Period:** The duration of time required for your node to upgrade from the current level to the next level.

