---
description: The key data structure of account abstraction.
---

# UserOperation

## Overview

A UserOperation is the key data structure of account abstraction. It represents a new type of transaction that is generated by the user and processed by the EntryPoint contract and verified by the Account contract.

Similar to a regular transaction it contains a `sender`, `nonce`, `callData` and a `signature` among other fields. It's important to note that a UserOperation is not stored on chain. A UserOperation represents the intention of a User to perform a transaction, from this intention an actual transaction is derived. A UserOperation is sent to a Bundler who listens for UserOperations, bundles them, using signature aggregation if possible, and passes them to the EntryPoint for execution.

Unlike an VeChain transaction, the signature in a UserOperation can be arbitrary thus unlocking more functionality than a traditional transaction. For example a signature can use a different algorithm, it can incorporate threshold signatures for multi-signature functionality or can even incorporate social recovery mechanisms allowing the user to recover their account if their main key-pair is lost or stolen.

## UserOperation Fields

A table describing each UserOperation field can be found below.

<table><thead><tr><th width="275">Field</th><th width="157.33333333333331">Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>sender</code></td><td><code>address</code></td><td>The account making the operation</td></tr><tr><td><code>nonce</code></td><td><code>uint256</code></td><td>Anti-replay parameter; also used as the salt for first-time account creation</td></tr><tr><td><code>initCode</code></td><td><code>bytes</code></td><td>The initCode of the account (needed if and only if the account is not yet on-chain and needs to be created)</td></tr><tr><td><code>callData</code></td><td><code>bytes</code></td><td>The data to pass to the <code>sender</code> during the main execution call</td></tr><tr><td><code>callGasLimit</code></td><td><code>uint256</code></td><td>The amount of gas to allocate the main execution call</td></tr><tr><td><code>verificationGasLimit</code></td><td><code>uint256</code></td><td>The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step</td></tr><tr><td><code>preVerificationGas</code></td><td><code>uint256</code></td><td>The amount of gas to pay for to compensate the bundler for pre-verification execution and calldata</td></tr><tr><td><code>maxFeePerGas</code></td><td><code>uint256</code></td><td>Maximum fee per gas (similar to EIP-1559 <code>max_fee_per_gas</code>)</td></tr><tr><td><code>maxPriorityFeePerGas</code></td><td><code>uint256</code></td><td>Maximum priority fee per gas (similar to EIP-1559 <code>max_priority_fee_per_gas</code>)</td></tr><tr><td><code>paymasterAndData</code></td><td><code>bytes</code></td><td>Address of paymaster sponsoring the transaction, followed by extra data to send to the paymaster (empty for self-sponsored transaction)</td></tr><tr><td><code>signature</code></td><td><code>bytes</code></td><td>Data passed into the account along with the nonce during the verification step</td></tr></tbody></table>

More detailed information about UserOperations and its fields can be found [here](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337#specification).
